# CS-340

#How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing code with a modular ideal is useful for maintainability and readability. For instance, instead of creating a monolithic block of code that contains all of the functions, classes, and main, it may be better to organize the files into classes. Each of these files could contain the class and its associated getter and setter methods, the Main would be its own file, an any helper functions could be organized into libraries. By utilizing this scheme an individual library could be tweaked/fixed and then any code that imports this this library would benefit from that fix/tweak.

#How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I try to start with an overall picture of what should be built by using a top down/requirements driven approach, instead of starting to code individual components like bottoms-up. I have found from my experiences so far that if I start throwing code at the problem there is often a lot of re-work that needs to be done as functions develop, e.g., need to pass different arguments or return a different type. I feel that by handling the requirements from a top down approach has helped me to stay on task and have an organized method of approach as I worked on the project, and has also given me plenty of time to catch mistakes and fix them with appropriate amount of time. This method hasn't really changed from any of my previous work or from previous courses as this method has been the most reliable method that I found to maintain consistency and I plan to continue to use this method for future courses and projects.

#What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists serve to engineer and develop computer-based solutions to optimize or streamline processes in order to maximize efficiencies in our work. This is significant because the work of computer scientists drive productivity and allow us to process data in a way not previously possible by leveraging the power of computers. Based on my experiences thus far, my work on these types of projects would help companies to do their work better by providing them with more information about their business processes or streamlining their busniness workflows to maximize efficiency, and therefor maximizing profits.
